In the last video, maybe you already saw it.
If I open up the console again and we inspect this vue instance, we see a couple of properties here which
clearly are already created by us, for example children which is an empty array, el which clearly refers to
this div which actually represents our instance or it represents our html code of this instance and also
data here and some other things.
These are actually properties we can use
and whilst I won't go through all of them, some of them are also pretty self-explanatory and some I'll
cover later when we come to components and more advanced objects,
I want to go through some, specifically I want to talk about $el, $data and
$refs here.
So let's have a look at that, $el
is pretty clear, it refers to our template,
it refers to our html code of that instance.
So as you see, it refers to this div and it is this native html element,
nothing special about it.
So this is how vuejs keeps track of what our html code is or where this instance lives.
$data is an object which holds our data properties,
this is another way of accessing the data from outside,
so while I can access the data by directly typing vm1.title, I could also type $data.title because
$data is the data block we passed here accessible from outside.
I can prove this, if I create a new variable, data and set this equal to exactly the properties we have
here,
like this
and then here I set data equal to data,
now referring to this variable I created
outside of that instance, I can now down here check if the data stored in the $data property
created by vuejs equals the data variable I created up here. Well let's see this in action, if I hit
control and remove that semi-colon here,
so if I hit control again and I open up my console, we see true here and this true refers to the only console
log we have, to this one here.
So the $data object, this data object is stored in our vuejs instance, actually still
is this data object
we set up up here. And this is by the way another way of how you may initialize the data in your instances,
you don't have to write everything in this object,
you may also create the data variable before creating your vue instance and then simply pass it as
the value for this key value pair here.
That is perfectly fine as you see here,
it works in the same way,
and this is one of the key things I want you to understand.
Vuejs doesn't create its own enclosed world,
it's normal Javascript code,
it lives in the javascript code and it's able to interact with the javascript code around it, as you can
see here. We can use a normal javascript variable to populate our data,
we can access the instance from outside like here,
we can use the proxied properties of the vue instance from outside,
we can use multiple vue instances, we can throw in normal javascript code like this timeout
where we can access
the vue instance data, we can do all of that.
Of course we want to make sure that we don't mess with things under control of vuejs
.
so if we control a part of the html code, like this one with vuejs, you probably don't want to access it with
vanilla javascript code too because it could mess up the reactivity of vuejs if it controls a certain
part there,
if it renders something with v-if and you try to access them with vanilla javascript code, you might access it when it doesn't
exist or something like that,
so that's something to watch out for.
But generally there's nothing wrong with mixing your normal javascript code and vuejs, you don't have
to create a vuejs only application,
you can always throw it in if you only want to control parts or if you only need certain things of
vuejs.
I'm just emphasizing this because it is important to understand, once we will learn how to build
vuejs
only applications in this course too.
Right now we're still in the stage where we only are controlling parts of the html page,
keep this in mind and that is perfectly valid and something you will see in a lot of applications.